Let's go back over to our common library.
We're going to define this enum of order status to describe all the possible statuses that an order
can have.
Back inside my editor.
I'll find my common directory inside there.
I'm going to find Z then events.
And inside of events I'm going to make a new folder called Types.
And then inside of types, I'll make a new file called Order Status.
It's.
Inside of order status.
I'll then write out export order status.
So in total, we're going to say that an order can have four different possible states.
Only four are going to first write out all these different states that an order can be in.
And then we'll put in some comments to describe the purpose of each of them.
So first is going to be created.
Cancelled.
Awaiting payment.
And complete.
So these are the only four possible statuses that an order can ever have.
It's not going to put on a comment for each one.
So when is something going to be or when is an order going to have a status of created?
We're going to say that in order has a status of created when the order has been created.
But the.
Ticket it is.
Trying to order has not been reserved.
So it turns out, as you'll see in a little bit, whenever someone creates an order, we're not going
to necessarily immediately have full confirmation that a ticket or the ticket the user is trying to
purchase is actually 100% reserved.
It turns out that there actually is a race condition that we need to think about very deeply.
So whenever an order gets created, we're going to say, well, we think that we have reserved the ticket,
but we don't actually know for sure.
There's kind of a difference between a order reserving a ticket and a ticket being actually available.
We'll dive more into this over time.
Right now, we're just going to say that whenever a order has been created by default, it will be simply
created.
Next up is cancelled.
So a order will be in the state of cancelled any time.
The ticket the order is trying to reserve has already been reserved.
Or when the user has cancelled.
The order.
So kind of two scenarios here.
The first one is kind of a reference to what I just mentioned around this created case.
So it is possible for a user to create an order, but for it to not actually successfully reserve the
ticket that the order was for.
And again, it goes to that kind of race condition that we'll discuss in a little.
If that's the case, if we kind of fail to reserve the ticket, then we're going to fall into this cancelled
case.
And naturally, if a user decides to cancel the order, we will also market as canceled.
Now awaiting payment is going to occur whenever the order has successfully reserved the ticket.
And finally complete.
Mark this thing as complete any time.
The order has reserved the ticket and the user has provided payment successfully.
There is actually one other case here I mentioned or I failed to mention around canceled.
The other possibility is if the order expires before payment.
Totally forgot that very important case.
So if, say, 15 minutes goes by and we don't get any payment from the user, then we're going to mark
the order as cancelled as well.
The notice that cancelled is kind of a catch all, so we're kind of capturing these three different
cases.
So when we fail to do the reservation, when the user cancels the order or when it expires as well,
all three of those are under one case right here.
If you wanted to, you could definitely split these out to three different statuses to get a better
idea.
As far as analytics goes of why orders are failing to actually be processed, that'd be something I'm
just mentioning.
We're not going to do it because essentially for our purposes in order is either kind of progressing
through the stages and getting towards complete or it has failed, in which case we're going to market
as simply cancelled.
Kit.
So this is it.
These are the four statuses we can possibly have around in order.
So now I'm going to save this file.
We need to now make sure that we export this income from our common module.
We then need to republish the module and then update the common module inside of our order's project.
So step one, let's make sure that we actually export order status.
So inside of the common modules indexed file.
I will add in an expert from.
Events types order status.
That was easy.
I'm going to save this file.
Close it.
I'm going to close the order status and then go back over to my terminal.
I'll change into my common directory.
And I'll do an AMPM run pub inside there.
As usual going to commit.
Build.
Increment version pushed off to 9 p.m..
All that kind of good stuff.
Once that thing is all done, I'll then change over to orders.
And do an NPM update.
SGA tickets common.
Naturally.
Make sure you change that to your organization name.
Okay.
We'll run that.
And then we should just really confirm, make sure we get the correct version on the update.
So I just published version 14.
There's version 14 right there.
Definitely feel like I got the right version.
Cool.
So now we can go back over to our editor.
And back inside of our orders project, the order service will find the order model file, which we
were just working on.
Then at the very top, we're going to import the order status enum.
From our common module.
I've got a little air here around the import.
It's just kind of an issue out of VS code every now and then whenever you update a type definition file,
which is pretty much what's going on right here, the code is not going to understand that we've actually
updated this module right away.
So to get code, to understand what's going on here, you can do a command shift P to open the command
palette.
If you're on windows, I believe it's going to be control shift P and then you can search for reload
window.
Go ahead and hit enter.
That's essentially just going to reload vs code.
That's going to force it also to reload all the type definitions.
And now you'll notice that I don't have an error around that import anymore.
So now let's make use of this order status.
We're going to apply it to the order attributes interface in order document to severely restrict what
the status of an order can be set to.
So rather than allowing an order to have any arbitrary status, so long as it is a string, we're going
to say that the status property must be one of the possibilities listed inside of order status.
And we'll do the same thing for the order dock as well.
And then finally we can actually also encode on our mongoose schema, this requirement as well.
So technically the interfaces up here should be enough to capture any kind of erroneous case.
But we can also add in some validation on mongoose side to make sure that anytime someone tries to change
or set the status property right here, Mongoose will make sure that it gets set to one of several possible
values.
So on status are going to add in another key here of Enum.
Object values and then put in the order status enum.
So now whenever we try to set update whatever the status property mongoose will make sure that we set
it to one of the values listed inside of that enum.
One other thing that we might optionally want to do is provide a default value for this to make sure
100% that this thing really, truly always gets set.
So by default, we could say that every order gets created with a default status of created.
So to say that right in default then order status created like so this really is 100% optional because
we've got now two type checks at the top of the file.
We've also got the enum right here.
So not super necessary.
We're always going to make sure we set that order status, but you can just add that in if you wish.
Yes, that looks good.
That's definitely going to solve all this issue around handling the order status.
So now a quick pause right here.
We'll come back the next video and discuss the other property on here, that ticket property, and how
that thing is going to be set.